But we can start out with, it should,
>> Steve Kinney: Treat,
do we wanna blow up?
Yeah.
>> Female Student 1: If it
concatenates things.
But I mean, that's not how it's
supposed to work logically.
>> Steve Kinney: You get
to decide how it works.
How do you want it to work?
>> Female Student 1: Key
concatenate two strings.
>> Steve Kinney: Do we want it to?
>> Female Student 1: Why not?
[LAUGH]
>> Steve Kinney: Okay,
is that mathematical?
>> Female Student 1: No.
[LAUGH]
>> Steve Kinney: Let's assume that it
doesn't.
Let's assume that we want ours to be
better than the built-in function, right?
So let's say that it should parse
strings into numbers, right?
Okay.
>> Steve Kinney: Again, these are things
and if more of these ideas come up,
let's just interject, and
we'll do them, right?
Again, there's a lot of times where you
have a bug when you've got good test of
code, is where you just didn't
think about something, right?
And so that's flow of bug comes in,
you would write an additional test,
you'd make it pass.
So it should parse strings into numbers.
And again, this code doesn't exist.
So I start out with a statement of how
I would like the world to work, and
then I will go ahead and
make the world like that.
So we'll say 1 and 1 and I think if I
just did this in regular old JavaScript,
I'd end up with 11, right?
But I want this to be two, cuz maybe
these came from a query param where
they're strings but
they are spiritual numbers.
Or it came from an input field where it
was a string but I really wanted to be
a number or somewhere, my API gives
it to me as a string and whatever.
So we probably wanna have
that add function in there.
That's what happens when you talk and
type at the same time.
To be 2 and this is the nature of
that kind of red-green factor, right?
Which it will fail.
And if I scroll up now, we get our first
kind of useful error message, right?
Which is, you expected 2, you received 11.
That's not what you expected.
Red sadness everywhere, right?
So then what we can do now is
we could say something like,
and you can be like,
I would refactor this.
Good, you have tests.
You can refactor it.
If typeof a, can you tell I've
written TypeScript before?
Then a is, no, cool, or what I should do,
if I was a better person.
So I'd save see my test still fails,
but I haven't gotten there yet.
We're still 11.
If typeof b = `string`.
>> Steve Kinney: b.
>> Steve Kinney: And
my test passed again, yay.
Where else can my addition
function go wrong?
All right, cuz part of the practice here
is to just be paranoid about all the ways
your code could break.
What are other bad values
that we could get in here?
We now know that if we take a string
of as a number that could possibly
be turned into a number, we're good.
>> Female Student 1: Well that
can't be turned into a number.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
let's do it, let's find out.
And what do we want to happen if we throw
in the word potato as one of the numbers?
>> Female Student 1: Tell us
I'm gonna give it a number.
>> Steve Kinney: Okay, so
we wanna yell at the person.
Okay, cool.
It should get real angry,
>> Female Student 1: [LAUGH]
>> Steve Kinney: If you give it a string
that cannot be parsed into a number.
These strengths are single quoted, so
I will dance around using
apostrophes as much as possible.
All right, and this is actually
like a segue way as they call it,
so I think this is good, let's do it.
If I add 2 and potato,
what do I want it to be?
Well, I wanted to throw an error, but
I haven't told you how to do that yet.
So, let's just see it fail for a second,
and then we'll talk about how to throw
an error, cuz that's literally the next
thing we're gonna talk about anyway.
We'll start out with that.
And you can see that the test
fails because we got not a number.
And what we really wanted was either 2 or
something else to happen, right?
And so the request is that it blows up,
because why did you pass it a potato,
right?
So we need to know how to do that first.
So what we wanna do is,
we need to navigate the issue that I said
test fail if an error is thrown, right?
So we could implement the ability to
throw an error, that's not gonna make my
test pass, cuz an error would be
thrown and it wouldn't be caught.
And even if I did my code perfectly,
my tests still fail.
And this will be like, see,
testing is not for me.
I'm just gonna check it out myself.
No, we're not doing that.
We're better than that.
So we had this to be, and that was very
easy for our very simple ones, but
what if we said,
>> Steve Kinney: What
if we expected it to throw, right?
There is one nuance that I need
to draw your attention to,
which is just because of the nature
of the way JavaScript works.
If this were to throw,
it would actually blow up the test, right?
Because it's inside this test function,
what we need to do is just wrap
it in an anonymous function.
>> Steve Kinney: And maybe keep
the right number of parentheses.
Right, so now effectively our test
suite is gonna get this function here,
which is gonna call that function.
And it's expecting that,
when it calls this function, right?
That it will throw.
And If we run the code,
we can see that it fails, why?
Cuz it doesn't, right?
Expected function to throw an error.
And it doesn't throw an error,
so we're red.
That's not necessarily a bad red, because
we haven't implemented that code yet.
That is stealing ourselves for
occasional test results because
we're working towards something.
So now, if I go back to this,
here we have attempted to
take strings and
turn them into numbers, right?
And so there's a chance that even
after that attempt to do that,
one of them ends up as not a number,
right?
In the case of potato.
So in that case, we can say.
>> Steve Kinney: If,
>> Steve Kinney: Second argument is
not a number and our tests pass.
But this is where we've got to
train that thought process again,
which is, where's the gap in my logic?
I say, if b is NaN, throw an error.
What could technically
still be garbage input?
>> Steve Kinney: A, [LAUGH] right?
There is a practice in pair programming,
which I refuse to do because
I'm an introvert, right?
Where the game is,
one person writes a test, right?
The other person then goes to
write the most ridiculous,
naive implementation that would
get the test to pass, right?
And so, let's say we only
had this first test, right?
The implementer,
the person playing the game with you,
might just have a function that
returns four no matter what.
And your test would pass.
And so then the game,
the other player then writes another test.
Well then, three plus two is five, right?
To make it fail again.
And the goal is that you should end
up with really well tested code, or
a new enemy,
a new arch nemesis at some point.
So, this is thing, we solved one case.
But then there's a part that's not really
about writing code in any way, shape or
form, right?
Which is to simply stare at the code and
perseverate on all the ways that
it can go poorly for you, right?
So, yeah, like.
>> Steve Kinney: Give it.
>> Steve Kinney: a,
>> Steve Kinney: Second argument.
>> Steve Kinney: And so
then we could theoretically go ahead.
I'm gonna put this one beforehand because
I feel like that's how order works, and
where we just switch the arguments.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
our tests fail.
We go ahead and
we deal with that use case.
>> Steve Kinney: And
the other thing we can do with that
toThrow is, a test that is flaky is bad.
A flaky test is one that fails randomly
for reasons you don't totally understand.
Those are bad cuz what are you
gonna do when that happens?
You're gonna turn it off, right?
You know what's worse than that?
>> Steve Kinney: A test that
passes when it shouldn't, right?
And so, sure,
we're expecting this to throw, but
this thing could blow up for
any number of reasons.
I could make a typo and
this function would blow up, right?
And so what we might wanna do is
make some expectations on, okay,
what was the error message, right?
So I could say,
>> Steve Kinney: What's it angry about?
>> Steve Kinney: When I decided to use
a period and not use a period, right?
And so you can see, okay,
I expect this function
to throw with the error that I
expect it to throw with, right?
And now it's gonna be,
I expect this code to blow up and
I expect it to blow up
with this error message.
I forget if you have to use regex or
not, let's find out together, right?
You can even just do
part of the string and
it'll be I expected to have this that way.
If it's like, you put the time in there,
or something like that,
you don't really care about that.
Or if there are other parts of that you
don't necessarily care about cuz yes
having it match exactly that error
message is great until you decide you
wanna change the error message, right?
Or until you wanna include extra
information that could theoretically
change so on and so forth.
You wanna be like,
I would like to make sure that at
least this part is in there as well.
And start to build up all of these
places where things can go wrong.
But now the nice part is over time,
again, simple code, very easy to see.
But in a very, like a code base
has got hundreds of files, right?
The idea that you can constantly hammer at
every edge case of any given function and
know within seconds, right?
Under a second, usually,
unless it's a really big test suite,
that everything works the way you think
it does builds that confidence over time.
You're like, I changed something,
4,000 tests ran in five seconds.
Nothing blew up.
That doesn't mean you
didn't make a mistake, but
it just lowers the threshold of believing
that you made a mistake, right?
And so there are a whole bunch of
other ways that these can go wrong,
like I said, undefined.
Let's see if I can find it quickly enough.
Even off the top of my head,
tried to come up with a list of all of
the things that I might
think about testing for.
Cuz again, this is Javascript You
can throw anything in there.
Could have been a string,
could have been a number, and
some of these are you deciding, right?
We know that true plus true equals two.
>> Steve Kinney: Are you okay with that?
If so, great.
You should write a test verifying
that true plus true equals two,
if you wanted to blow up because
you expected those to be numbers,
then you should write a test for for that.
There's not necessarily a right answer and
what it should do.
It's like,
what are you trying to accomplish here?
>> Female Student 2: What's
the the general rule,
if you have a user input that you
definitely have validation for
in your code, do you repeat that
validation in the test case?
Or do you assume, I mean,
where do you draw the line?
>> Steve Kinney: I mean,
I would test the validation logic, right?
>> Female Student 2: That's true.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah,
I would take that whatever's valid or
invalid, cuz that is, even if that is deep
inside of a angular component somewhere,
something that's looking at
that password field, right?
Maybe it's line 386 of a giant login form.
What I would do.
I work on open source code base,
I'll show you some of this later.
It's interesting because on
my team I have one member who
will shove everything in that component.
And I take it to the other
extreme where I have
a utils folder that is probably
to the other end of it.
Where I will take validate that
there's an uppercase letter and
make that a utility function that I test,
validate that it has a number right,
and then validate password is.
Those four or five functions, all of them,
but I've pulled out each one,
because the smaller you break
stuff up into in that logic.
When your test suite blows up, you know
exactly which tests blew up, right?
If all of a sudden, if it's a well-named
tiny function that just checks to see if
a string has a capital letter in it,
and that test starts failing.
Well, you know what went wrong, right?
Very easily and you get a lot
more granular stuff in there.